Before going any further Here's a demonstration.
I've disabled all network interface cards on my PC except for the wireless interface card.
When I look at the details of that card I can see that my IP address is 1 9 2 1 6 8 1 8 9 and I have
a default gateway of 1 9 2 1 6 8 1 2 5 4 I can view that in a CMG prompt as an example.
So on my PC type IP config see the IP address see the default gateway.
I can ping Google dot com
so notice I'm getting replies from Google dot com.
I can access Google dot com.
So here's the Google web site.
But when I type what is my IP address into Google I'm told by Google that this is my public IP address.
IP config again shows me that my internal IP address or private IP address is 1 9 2 1 6 8 1 8 9 but
my public IP address is this.
So in this example my internet router at home is connected to the Internet and this route is configured
with DHP.
It's allocating IP addresses to devices internally using DHP.
And one of those IP addresses was allocated to my local PC but when I go on to the internet my address
used is a public IP address so a network address translation essentially translates a private IP address
which is non-radical on the Internet to a publicly ratable IP address your public IP address is typically
allocated to you by your service provider which in my case is British Telecom or BT.
Here in the UK in large networks companies may register their own public IP addresses.
Yarrow's some well-known examples Hewlett Packard own $15.00 flechette and 16 Apple own 17 and 18 forward
19 AT&T 32 and so on.
And IBM is an example nine dot sera sera sera.
So as an example if you working with HP or with an apple you may not be using a private IP address such
as this.
You may actually have a public IP address allocated to your PC.
These are globally readable public IP addresses that were registered by some of the largest companies
in the world but IP addresses are running out.
So in most small medium businesses today you'll be using a private IP address internally.